a group of biologist studying
humpback whales at the
Stellwagen bank national marine
sanctuary invited the critter
cam team to join them in their
research
critter cams are a small
computer controlled camera
system we used to study animal
behavior in their natural
environment the critter cams on
a section cup mount added the
end of this long pole boom
attached so now you're seeing
the view of humpbacks world from
riding on his back so the
researchers have put 3d motion
tags on whales here and they've
gotten records of this odd
twisting rolling behavior that's
happening well below the surface
where they can't see but they're
not really sure what it is
they're thinking it's probably
feeding of some sort but they
can't be certain
now by using the critter cam we
can figure out what's really
going on is it feeling like they
thought or is it something else
completely
so the critter cams on and we're
getting this great view of what
the whales doing and here it
begins to go to the surface to
get a breath and as it does it
runs into this other whale and
the crew game gets caught
between the two and it almost
gets knocked off its mount you
can see the front bracket in the
shot now luckily the second
bracket held in the camera state
on as the whale dies towards the
bottom it gets a lot darker so
the cameras kind of straining to
see in the slow light and here
we actually enhance the image so
we can see the detail better and
it gets a bit grainy you'll come
in you'll see the the whale
rotates as it approaches the
bottom it's rolling on its side
and the camera twists actually
so it's pointed downwards and
you see these little sand lance
fish swarming all over the
bottom that's the pray that the
whales going after but they're
not actually buried and so the
whales are skimming right up
along the bottom of the sea but
they're not actually digging
into it this bottom feeding
behavior could be sometimes done
by a whale by itself and
sometimes multiple Wales working
together and so that's the level
of detail that the visuals can
give us that some of these other
devices can't
this next shot is just fun while
the Wells running the critic am
it breached it leapt up out of
the water crashing back down
this is pretty cool to watch
from outside the whales
perspective but to see it like
this is just amazing